When I first began serving at Bethel, I'd call home to speak with my family, and my mother
would always ask, have they told you when the date of Armageddon is?
Those who's being humorous and didn't expect an answer, her question reveals what we all
long for.
Jehovah's promised new world.
Maybe you have in a sense asked Jehovah that question.
How much longer, Jehovah?
Or said to Jehovah, I'm exhausted.
I don't know how much longer I can keep going.
Please, Jehovah, when will your promises for a world of lasting peace, refreshment, and
relief from the pressures of this world come true?
We all likely feel this way from time to time.
What can help us not give up, not give out in our spiritual battle?
Note the words of Jesus at Mark 13, verse 29.
Notice what he says, likewise, also you.
When you see these things happening, know that he is near at the doors.
What things would we see happening?
Prophecy being fulfilled.
When we recognize Bible prophecies being fulfilled before our eyes, our faith is fortified.
We see the end as eminent.
We recognize that we're all most done.
That helps us not give out.
What are some of these prophecies?
You're familiar with the prophecies of earthquakes, wars and reports of wars, food shortages,
and disease all happening at once.
You see these things happening.
We see the diminished love of God and the deteriorating attitude of people in general.
As foretold in 2 Timothy chapter 3, 2 Timothy 313 says, wicked men and imposter will advance
from bad to worse.
You see these things happening.
As foretold this good news of the kingdom is being preached worldwide, now in over a thousand
languages.
You see these things happening.
As a result of Christ's rule, the knowledge of Jehovah is abundantly overflowing.
And what about Isaiah 45-18?
Here Jehovah calls himself the maker of the earth, who did not create it simply for nothing,
but formed it to be inhabited.
Today, scientists say that the world is on the brink of becoming uninhabitable.
They warn that if action to stop global warming is not taken quickly, its compounding effects
will become irreversible.
At Revelation 11-18, the Bible foretold that in our day man would be ruining the earth.
And it also assures us that Jehovah will step in and not let the earth be completely
ruined.
Some may wonder how much worse things will get.
Interestingly, at Luke 17-20, Jesus said this, Luke 17-20, the kingdom of God is not coming
with striking observableness.
This means that world conditions during the last days would not be so extreme that people
would be forced to believe that the end is near.
As Matthew 24-37-39 indicates, they would still be eating and drinking, getting married,
unable to carry on their everyday lives.
How should this affect us?
It should fortify us not to give up.
At Mark 13-35, Jesus said we must keep on the watch.
This means stay awake, be on guard.
And in the parallel account in Matthew 24, Jesus connects this with being ready.
What will help us to do this when we feel so exhausted?
Where can we get strength to keep up the fight?
In a word, trust.
We all love Jehovah.
We want to be convinced of Jehovah's loyal love for us individually.
And we trust that he'll always be there to help us.
Notice on screen the assurance Jehovah gives at Hebrews 13-5, I will never leave you,
and I will never abandon you.
Jehovah has been sustaining us.
Think how he sustains you.
Maybe you've experienced the ravages of a natural disaster.
Jehovah sustains you.
Maybe you've dealt with the loss of a loved one.
Jehovah has sustained you.
Whatever trial we've gone through, we can see how Jehovah has helped us.
This confirms for us that he'll sustain us in the future, and we have the confidence
that stated at Psalm 46, 1 and 2, God is our refuge and strength, a help that is readily
found in times of distress.
That is why we will not fear, though the earth undergoes change, though the mountains
topple into the depths of the sea.
These emphatic expressions leave no doubt that Jehovah will care for us.
Why is this reminder so important?
Over 6 of Hebrews 13, links trust with courage.
Notice what it says, so that we may be of good courage, and say, Jehovah is my helper.
I will not be afraid.
What can man do to me?
Because it doesn't say our or their helper, it says my helper.
We love Jehovah.
We can also be absolutely convinced that Jehovah loves us and will help us individually.
At times, it can be difficult to trust that Jehovah loves us personally and will act
in our behalf.
What can help build our trust in Jehovah's love?
Let's discuss three ways.
This is Proverbs 15.
Proverbs 15, Notice verse 9, Jehovah detests the way of the wicked one.
But he loves the one who pursues righteousness.
He loves the one who pursues or chases after righteousness.
He knows we can't be perfectly righteous, but he loves us for trying our best.
As he said for pursuing righteousness, he loves us because we don't quit.
We can trust that he'll never abandon us because we don't give up in pursuing righteousness.
Second, Pour out your heart to Jehovah.
Limitations 2.19 says this.
Limitations 2.19.
Pour out your heart like water before the face of Jehovah.
It doesn't say pour out your mind or your thoughts.
But pour your heart that includes our feelings, our concerns, our anxieties.
We pour our heart like one pours out water, not holding anything back.
When we express to our Heavenly Father, our love and appreciation for Him,
when we tell Him our concerns and desires, and when we ask for His direction,
we show that we value our friendship with Him.
What will be the result for you?
The more you pour your heart like water and feel His personal response to you,
the more you'll sense His love for you.
The more you'll trust that He'll never abandon you.
Your gratitude for Jehovah's enduring love will increase.
And third, remember that trials do not mean a loss of Jehovah's favor.
Our enemy knows that feeling close to Jehovah is the source of our strength,
so he'll try to undermine our confidence.
Any hopes that we break away from Jehovah?
For example, when Job was undergoing a severe trial,
his false confiders lyingly said that the reason for these trials was that he'd lost Jehovah's favor.
Jehovah reminded Job to look at creation and to see His love and wisdom.
How did faithful Job respond?
He said at Job 42-5,
My ears have heard about you,
but now I do see you with my eyes.
We may wonder if we've lost Jehovah's favor.
We should ask Jehovah to help us see Him and see His loyal love for us every day.
Ask Him to help you use this trial as a stepping stone to love and trust Him even more.
We've discussed one way we get ready for the upcoming events.
Build our trust that Jehovah has loyal love for us individually.
Trusting that Jehovah will never abandon us gives us the strength to keep up the fight and keep on the watch.
At Ephesians 6-16, faith or trust in Jehovah is compared to a shield,
a shield which you can extinguish all the wicked ones' burning arrows or all of Satan's spiritual attacks.
For example, when we hear lies about Jehovah, His organization,
and those He's appointed to take the lead, we will not be shaken.
We won't give up or give out.
We know the prophecy at Matthew 24-45 has been fulfilled.
Jehovah has lovingly provided His slave that's faithful and discreet.
We recognize that Jehovah provides spiritual food and direction through this body of men at the right time.
We're not left floundering or trying to find our way,
therefore we remain obedient and responsive to the direction we receive.
We never dismiss it, even if it doesn't appear practical from a human standpoint.
Trusting in Jehovah's loyal love has saved His people in the past.
In 2 Chronicles chapter 20, verse 1 and 2 tells us that Jehastaphat
learned that a coalition of nations, a large crowd from the region of the sea,
were coming against Him.
Jehastaphat already had the habit of turning to Jehovah.
He resolved to search for Jehovah.
How did He and His faithful subjects do this?
Jehastaphat poured His heart like water to Jehovah.
Notice in verse 12 how He expresses His complete trust in Jehovah.
For we are powerless before this large crowd that is coming against us,
and we do not know what we should do.
But our eyes are toward you.
How did Jehovah respond? Notice verse 15,
Jehovah sent Jehazail to reassure them.
Do not be afraid or be terrified because of this large crowd
for the battle is not yours but God's.
The strategy that Jehastaphat followed didn't seem practical from a human standpoint.
Jehastaphat appointed singers dressed in holy adornment to praise Jehovah.
And how unusual that He put them in front of the armed men.
Were they singing songs about how Jehovah defeated their enemies in past wars?
No. They sang about Jehovah's loyal love.
What was the result?
Jehovah confused their enemies and they attacked each other.
What lessons can we learn from this account?
Trusting Jehovah includes trusting His representatives.
The life-saving direction we receive from Jehovah's organization may not appear practical
from a human standpoint.
But we recognize the fulfillment of the prophecy at Matthew 24-45
about the faithful and discreet slave and we're ready to obey any instruction they provide.
Yes, getting ready includes building trust and being convinced that Jehovah will deliver us
from the wicked one. Trusting Him will help us understand the prophetic role of the faithful
and discreet slave during this time of the end when Jehovah is using them to provide life-saving
direction. This direction is helping us to stay ready.
Jehovah sustained us in the past and He sustains us now. Seeing these things happening can also
fortify and strengthen us. Many of you have been fighting to keep on the watch for many years.
Now the end is clearly in sight. We don't want to give up now. Notice the reassurance,
agglations, chapter 6, verse 9. Galatians, chapter 6, 9.
So let us not give up in doing what is fine. For in due time we will reap if we do not
tire out. Because of our imperfect flesh and the efforts of Satan and this wicked world,
we must constantly battle negative influences. Some of you dear brothers and sisters
must fight hard every day to maintain your relationship with Jehovah. Don't give up. Your fight
has not been in vain. You've made the right choices. Jehovah has seen your loyal love for him
and he treasures your devotion. Time and time again you've made sacrifices. Left your comfort zone
to give Jehovah your best, to stay active in the ministry, to keep taking in spiritual food
and to teach your children how to speak about Jehovah. Jehovah loves you dearly for this
and will loyally continue to help you until the battle is won. Do not give up now.
In your young ones, Jehovah loves you too. He knows that you're growing up in a world that's
broken. He knows that it can be hard for you to maintain hope for the future. Please,
never forget that your God, your Heavenly Father loves you dearly. Never forget that your future
is bright. Whether we're young or old or in between, we will not give up. We're so close. We
see these things happening with our own eyes. So we'll keep on the watch. We'll trust Jehovah
with all our hearts. We'll trust Jehovah's arrangements and we will not give out in our spiritual
battle because we will reap rich blessings soon, very soon.